keyboards/cradio/readme.md, before:

# Cradio keyboards

![Cradio](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/filterpaper/filterpaper.github.io/main/images/cradio.png)

Cradio are minimalist 34-key split-keyboards designed with no diodes, using direct micro-controller pin wiring.

## Keyboard Info

* Keyboard Maintainer: [David Barr](https://github.com/davidphilipbarr)
* Hardware Supported:
    * [Cradio](https://github.com/davidphilipbarr/36keys/tree/master/34Keys)
    * [Sweep](https://github.com/davidphilipbarr/Sweep)
    * [Hypergolic](https://github.com/davidphilipbarr/hypergolic)
    * Variants of the same 34-key direct pin PCB
* Hardware Availability: order PCBs using gerber files from the repository

Make example for this keyboard (after setting up your build environment):

    make cradio:default

See the [build environment setup](https://docs.qmk.fm/#/getting_started_build_tools) and the [make instructions](https://docs.qmk.fm/#/getting_started_make_guide) for more information. Brand new to QMK? Start with our [Complete Newbs Guide](https://docs.qmk.fm/#/newbs).

## Bootloader

Enter the bootloader in 3 ways:

* **Keycode in layout**: Press the key mapped to `RESET` if it is configured.
* **Physical reset button**: Briefly press the reset button soldered on the PCB.
* **Bootmagic reset**: Hold down the top left key on the left half (or the top right key on the right half) and plug in the controller on that side.

Commit message:

[Keyboard] Add RP2040 config defaults for ferris/sweep and cradio (#17557)

keyboards/cradio/readme.md, after:

# Cradio keyboards

![Cradio](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/filterpaper/filterpaper.github.io/main/images/cradio.png)

Cradio are minimalist 34-key split-keyboards designed with no diodes, using direct micro-controller pin wiring.

## Keyboard Info

* Keyboard Maintainer: [David Barr](https://github.com/davidphilipbarr)
* Hardware Supported:
    * [Cradio](https://github.com/davidphilipbarr/36keys/tree/master/34Keys)
    * [Sweep](https://github.com/davidphilipbarr/Sweep)
    * [Hypergolic](https://github.com/davidphilipbarr/hypergolic)
    * Variants of the same 34-key direct pin PCB
* Hardware Availability: order PCBs using gerber files from the repository

Make example for this keyboard (after setting up your build environment):

    make cradio:default

### RP2040 Controllers

Pro Micro RP2040 controllers are supported with [QMK Converters](https://docs.qmk.fm/#/feature_converters). The make command example for Adafruit's KB2040 are:

    make CONVERT_TO=kb2040 cradio:default

See the [build environment setup](https://docs.qmk.fm/#/getting_started_build_tools) and the [make instructions](https://docs.qmk.fm/#/getting_started_make_guide) for more information. Brand new to QMK? Start with our [Complete Newbs Guide](https://docs.qmk.fm/#/newbs).

## Bootloader

Enter the bootloader in 3 ways:

* **Keycode in layout**: Press the key mapped to `RESET` if it is configured.
* **Physical reset button**: Briefly press the reset button soldered on the PCB.
* **Bootmagic reset**: Hold down the top left key on the left half (or the top right key on the right half) and plug in the controller on that side.
