keyboards/gmmk/pro/ansi/keymaps/stickandgum/readme.md, before:

# Glorious GMMK Pro / ANSI - Enhanced Keyboard

Tried to incorporate full featured GMMK Pro keyboard functionality without adding unnecessary features. Included Scroll Lock and Caps LEDs. NKRO is on by default.
SHIFT and Ctrl keys for scrolling with the rotary, Added Fn-keys for Screen Brightness, NKRO, PowerOff, Suspend, App Shortcuts, and RGB Toggle/Modifications
Trimmed down the amazing 41 currently built-in RGB effects down to about 13 or so reasonable effects that feel are just enough for your entertainment without being too excessive.

BIG thank you to [AndreBrait](https://github.com/andrebrait), And of course, @drashna and @filterpaper and the entire discord community.

* Keymap Creator: [StickAndGum](https://github.com/StickAndGum)
* Keyboard: [More info on GMMK Pro](https://www.pcgamingrace.com/products/glorious-gmmk-pro-75-barebone-black)
* Controller [STM32F303CCT6](https://www.st.com/en/microcontrollers-microprocessors/stm32f303.html)

* Layout:  
  ![keyboard-layout](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/22257588/130371838-875ba65b-88ea-4f81-a44a-bb24194c4989.png)

Features are as follows:

Rotary:
  - Default:  Volume Up/Down
  - Shift:    Mouse Wheel Down/Up
  - Ctrl:     Page Down/Up

Top/Default Layer:
  - Print Screen -> Print Screen (Left of rotary)
  - Delete -> Home (Under Rotary)
  - Right Alt -> Delete (Right of Spacebar)
  - All other keys defaults.

Fn Layer:
  - Fn + \ -> Bootloader Mode (Can also hold ESC while powering up) - If hit by mistake, just unplug and replug in.
  - Fn + Backspace -> Insert
  - Fn + Print  -> Pause/Break
  - Fn + Home -> Scroll Lock (Lights up white!)
  - Fn + Del (right of space) -> Right-Alt key.
  - Fn + RCtrl (right of Fn) -> Menu/App key.
  - Fn + N -> Toggle NKRO (Defaults to Enabled)
  - Fn + End -> Power Off Computer
  - Fn + F12 -> Suspend Computer
  - Fn + F11 -> Wake Computer (Necessary on MAC OS?)
  - Fn + Page Up / Down -> Laptop Screen Brightness Up/Down
  - Fn + F1 - F5 -> Launch Calc, My Comp (Explorer), Media Player, Mail Client, Web Browser Home.
  - Fn + Up, Down, Left, Right Arrows -> Media Play, Stop, Previous, Next respectively.

- RGB Information:
  - Toggle for RGB via Fn-r (CAPS & SCROLL still Light/Indicate)
  - CAPS: Side Light Rainbow Indicators and Left-side RED Indicators
  - Scroll: Fn-Home (Under Rotary) white indicator.
  - Modifiers identified around most of the edge of keyboard / Side lights accented (Fn-1 looks GREAT IMHO)
  
- RGB Modifing (all via Function key) all via wasdqerf (common gaming keys) - easy to remember.
  - Fn + r -> Toggle RGB
  - Fn + w,s -> Brightness Up, Down
  - Fn + a,d -> Cycle Forward/Backward through rgb effects
  - Fn + q   -> Increase or Decrease Saturation (use SHIFT key to lower)
  - Fn + e   -> Increase or Decrease Hue/Color (use SHIFT key to lower)
  - Fn + f   -> Increase or Decrease Speed (Using "F" for Fast!) (Use SHIFT for slower)
  - Fn + ~, 0-9, - = keys (2nd row keys) -> 13 RGB different effects arranged to my liking. Fn-1 is my favorite.
  - Fn + L -> My easter egg... "QMK rocks!"
  
- Known issues:
  - The Heatmap and Matrix FrameBuffer effects (Fn - and =) are a bit buggy - F-keys light up when they shouldn't and the Caps/Scroll lights don't turn off properly when using. Just change the effect to something else to fix this. 
    - If you find a fix for this, please let me know.

See the [build environment setup](https://docs.qmk.fm/#/getting_started_build_tools) and the [make instructions](https://docs.qmk.fm/#/getting_started_make_guide) for more information. Brand new to QMK? Start with our [Complete Newbs Guide](https://docs.qmk.fm/#/newbs).

Commit message:

[Keymap] Fixed GMMK Pro -> stickandgum keymap readme.md (#14123)
Co-authored-by: James Young <18669334+noroadsleft@users.noreply.github.com>

keyboards/gmmk/pro/ansi/keymaps/stickandgum/readme.md, after:

# Glorious GMMK Pro / ANSI - Enhanced Keyboard

Tried to incorporate full featured GMMK Pro keyboard functionality without adding unnecessary features. Included Scroll Lock and Caps LEDs. NKRO can be toggled (Fn + N).
SHIFT and Ctrl keys for scrolling with the rotary, Fn-keys also used for screen brightness, media, PowerOff, Suspend, App Shortcuts, and RGB Toggle/Modifications. Trimmed down the amazing (currently 41) built-in RGB effects down to about 13 or so reasonable effects that feel are just enough for your entertainment without being too excessive.

BIG thank you to [AndreBrait](https://github.com/andrebrait), And of course, @drashna and @filterpaper, @noroadsleft and the entire discord community.

* Keymap Creator: [StickAndGum](https://github.com/StickAndGum)
* Keyboard: [More info on GMMK Pro](https://www.pcgamingrace.com/products/glorious-gmmk-pro-75-barebone-black)
* Controller [STM32F303CCT6](https://www.st.com/en/microcontrollers-microprocessors/stm32f303.html)

* Layout:  
  ![keyboard-layout](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/22257588/130371838-875ba65b-88ea-4f81-a44a-bb24194c4989.png)

Features are as follows:

Rotary:
  - Default:  Volume Up/Down
  - Shift:    Mouse Wheel Down/Up
  - Ctrl:     Page Down/Up

Top/Default Layer:
  - Print Screen -> Print Screen (Left of rotary)
  - Delete -> Home (Under Rotary)
  - Right Alt -> Delete (Right of Spacebar)
  - All other keys defaults.

Fn Layer:
  - Fn + \ -> Bootloader Mode (Can also hold ESC while powering up) - If hit by mistake, just unplug and replug in.
  - Fn + Backspace -> Insert
  - Fn + Print  -> Pause/Break
  - Fn + Home -> Scroll Lock (Lights up white!)
  - Fn + Del (right of space) -> Right-Alt key.
  - Fn + RCtrl (right of Fn) -> Menu/App key.
  - Fn + N -> Toggle NKRO
  - Fn + End -> Power Off Computer
  - Fn + F12 -> Suspend Computer
  - Fn + F11 -> Wake Computer (Necessary on MAC OS?)
  - Fn + Page Up / Down -> Laptop Screen Brightness Up/Down
  - Fn + F1 - F5 -> Launch Calc, My Comp (Explorer), Media Player, Mail Client, Web Browser.
  - Fn + Up, Down, Left, Right Arrows -> Media Play, Stop, Previous, Next respectively.

- RGB Information:
  - Toggle for RGB via Fn-r (CAPS & ScrlLock still Light/Indicate)
  - CAPS: Side Light Rainbow Indicators and Left-side RED Indicators
  - Scroll-Lock: Fn-Home (Under Rotary) white indicator.
  - Modifiers identified around most of the edge of keyboard / Side lights also accented (Fn-1 looks GREAT IMHO)
  
- RGB Modifing (all via Function key) all via wasdqerf (common gaming keys) - easy to remember.
  - Fn + r -> Toggle RGB
  - Fn + w,s -> Brightness Up, Down
  - Fn + a,d -> Cycle Forward/Backward through rgb effects
  - Fn + q   -> Increase or Decrease Saturation (use SHIFT key to lower)
  - Fn + e   -> Increase or Decrease Hue/Color (use SHIFT key to lower)
  - Fn + f   -> Increase or Decrease Speed (Using "F" for Fast!) (Use SHIFT for slower)
  - Fn + ~, 0-9, - = keys (2nd row keys) -> 13 RGB different effects arranged to my liking. Fn-1 is my favorite.
  - Fn + L -> My easter egg... "QMK rocks!"
  
- Known issues:
  - The Heatmap and Matrix FrameBuffer effects (Fn - and =) are a bit buggy - F-keys light up when they shouldn't and the Caps/Scroll lights don't turn off properly when using. Just change the effect to something else to fix this. 
    - If you find a fix for this, please let me know.

See the [build environment setup](https://docs.qmk.fm/#/getting_started_build_tools) and the [make instructions](https://docs.qmk.fm/#/getting_started_make_guide) for more information. Brand new to QMK? Start with our [Complete Newbs Guide](https://docs.qmk.fm/#/newbs).
